## Use `if cmd; then ..` to check exit code, or `if [ "$(cmd)" = .. ]` to check output.

### Problematic code:
```sh
# WRONG
if [ grep -q pattern file ]
then
  echo "Found a match"
fi
```

```sh
# WRONG
if ! [[ logname == $LOGNAME ]]
then
    echo "Possible `su` shell"
fi
```


### Correct code:
```sh
if grep -q pattern file
then
  echo "Found a match"
fi
```

```sh
if ! [[ $(logname) == $LOGNAME ]]
then
    echo "Possible `su` shell"
fi
```


### Rationale:
`[ ... ]` as shell syntax is a simple command that tests for whether certain conditions are true or false, such as whether the value assigned to a variable has a non-zero length (`[ -n "${foo}" ]`) or whether a file system object is a directory (`[ -d "${dir}" ]`). `If-then-(elif-then)-else-fi` statements are logical constructs which themselves contain lists of commands which can include simple commands. 

`[` is just regular command, like `whoami` or `grep`, but with a funny name (see `ls -l /bin/[`). It's a shorthand for `test`. `[[` is similar to both `[` and `test`, but `[[` offers some additional unary operators, such as '=~' the regular expression comparison operator.  It allows one to use extglobs such as `@(foo|bar)` (a "bashism"), among some other less commonly used features. 

`[[`, `[` and `test` are often used within `if...fi` constructs in the conditional commands position: which is between the 'if' and the 'then.' 

There are certain shell syntaxes which can be wrapped **directly** around simple commands, in particular:
- (1)  `{ ...;}`, group commands, 
- (2)  `$( ... )`, command substitutions, 
- (3)  `<( ... )` and `>( ... )`, process substitutions, 
- (4)  `( ... )`, subshells, and
- (5)  `$(( ... ))` and `(( ... ))`, arithmetic evaluations.

Some examples include: 
- (1)  `{ echo {a..z}; echo {0..9};} > ~/f`, 
- (2)  `[[ $(logname) == $LOGNAME ]]`, 
- (3)  `readarray -t files < <( find ...)`,
- (4)  `(cd /foo || exit 1; tar ...)`, and
- (5)  `dd bs=$((2**12)) count=1 if=/dev/zero of=/tmp/zeroed-block`, respectively.  

Note how in example (2) `logname` is enclosed **directly** within a command substitution, which is itself enclosed within a `[[` reserved word / conditional expression / compound command. 

If you want to check the exit status of a certain command, use that command directly as demonstrated in the correct code, above.

If you want to check the output of a command, use `"$(..)"` to get its output, and then use `test`/`[` or  `[[` to do a string comparison:

```sh
# Check output of `whoami` against the string `root`
if [ "$(whoami)" = "root" ]
then
  echo "Running as root"
fi
```


### Exceptions:

None.


### Related Resources:

For more information, see [this problem in the Bash Pitfall](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashPitfalls#if_.5Bgrep_foo_myfile.5D) list, or generally [Tests and Conditionals](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashGuide/TestsAndConditionals) in the wooledge.org BashGuide 

* [How do I use a file grep comparison inside a bash if/else statement?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2480584/how-do-i-use-a-file-grep-comparison-inside-a-bash-if-else-statement)
* [Bash Pitfalls: `if [grep foo myfile]`](https://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashPitfalls#if_.5Bgrep_foo_myfile.5D)

[Source](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck/wiki/SC1014)

